well it's that time of year again
spring cleaning making your way outside
you grab the duster and broom to get rid
of all those cobwebs on your windows
they don't stand a chance this time
removing
one cobweb after the other you suddenly
notice some weird-shaped
mud stuck under the eaves and porch
what's this
it suddenly dawns on you these have to
be mud dauber wasp nests
you're probably thinking there's a swarm
of them around with so many nests
being side by side luckily mud dauber
wasps
are solitary insects all those little
mud huts are filled with paralyzed
spiders
sometimes even up to 500 spiders can be
trapped in these lockers
just waiting for the wasp young to hatch
if the nest has
holes it may indicate the nest is
inactive or
old as mud dabber wasps create holes
when they leave the nest
if you're not going to remove them it's
best to wait till
night time when they're not as active
well they're pretty placid
if they feel threatened they won't
hesitate to stay
looking like someone got halfway through
building one insect
and forgot what part came next the mole
cricket
is one insect that really looks out of
this world
with claws like a mole a body of a
cricket
and the head of a shrimp this critter is
like the platypus of the insect world
they're not venomous and will only bite
if you trap them inside your hand
and if you really annoy it it's got
something else up its sleeve
the wings they can spit a foul-smelling
brown liquid from their body
just like a skunk so just let them leave
your home
and there will be nothing to clean up
rock pools are teeming with all sorts of
plant and animal life
sea creatures such as starfish seagrass
hermit crabs tiny fish and all types of
octopuses
if you come across this tiny blue ringed
octopus
it's best to leave it alone it's
flashing neon blue at you for a reason
this miniature octopus has a venomous
bite that's a thousand times stronger
than cyanide
with no antidote available don't poke it
with a stick or try to pick one up
it's not worth the trip to the hospital
or the morgue
snakes on land are scary but sea snakes
are on an entirely different level
found in the indian and pacific oceans
there are about 50 different species of
sea snakes
and they're beautiful as much as they're
dangerous luckily
they don't seem to worry about us too
much the dubois sea snake
is arguably the most venomous snake in
the ocean
with the big sea snake not far behind
their venom makes a cobras bite seem
like a walk in the park
the venom of both these snakes is
extremely dangerous
good thing for us that their venom can
take hours to cause any
symptoms in humans if they can bite
through your wetsuit that is
now if this fly lands on your arm
outside
you might just scream a little hey i
wouldn't blame you
the scorpion fly as its name suggests
has a curved tail that looks just like a
scorpion stinger
but you can breathe a sigh of relief
this is only used for mating
it also has a long beak-like head that's
used to feed after stealing insects from
spiders webs
to find the perfect partner they love to
give the equivalent of a box of
chocolates and flowers
except theirs is saliva how romantic
if you happen to be in africa you might
just miss this large bird if you're not
paying attention
the shoe bill will just casually stand
still as you walk right on by
going up to five feet tall with an
eight-foot wingspan
the shoe bill sounds like an apex
predator though it's anything but
known as one of the most slow-moving
birds almost statue-like
the shoe bill just eats fish near the
surface of the water
without a care in the world this bird
isn't afraid of humans at all
while they won't naturally come over to
talk about the weather
they'll allow us to get close enough for
some photos
now if you hear a small squeaking sound
while you're in the garden
it could be a mouse a squirrel or a
rhinoceros beetle
is letting you know that you are too
close
they love to make a racket when bothered
with a giant scary horn on top of their
head
they might seem like they're able to
defend themselves with it
but that's not possible at all it's only
to move
leaves and sticks out of their way and
to stop other males from coming into the
female beatles area
not only have they got a horn on their
head but they've
also got herculean strength able to lift
850 times their own weight it's like you
or me
lifting 65 tons or 11 elephants
hey let's try it yeah
found mainly in china the small tufted
deer looks adorable with his tuft of
hair
that is until it turns around oh
no it's a vampire deer luckily this
animal doesn't want to taste your blood
or
wear a cape only males grow these during
the mating season
rather than antlers to fight over
territories and female tufted deer
these fangs are more like elephant tusks
than sharp teeth
not only do they have fangs but they're
also known to
bark like a dog and flee like a cat when
they're scared
red sky at night sailor's delight
red sky in the morning sailors warning
no one said anything about a red tide
though
the red tide is a toxic algal bloom that
rises up from the sea floor after
particularly bad storms
this algae looks a lot like spilled
ketchup or rust in the water
but it's much worse for the life around
it
fish and marine life will try to escape
once exposed to the toxic algae in their
water
it's not particularly harmful to humans
who are exposed to it
but if you eat seafood contaminated with
its toxins
things can become a bit more serious so
if the sea is red just stay out of the
water
some spiders love to show off with
bright colors to show they're dangerous
not the sydney funnel web spider of
australia
this glossy black spider doesn't need
theatrics to prove it's tough
these bad tempered crawlers cause
serious alarm
when they decide to bite us it can shut
down our entire nervous system
in as little as 30 minutes making their
web in
any shelter like old logs shoes
or even garden gnomes the funnel web
spiders
like to live close to our surroundings
for easy food
when they get tired of an area they just
leave their web behind and
wander off to find somewhere new perfect
some say honey badgers don't care and i
think they might be right
when you're brave enough to take food
away from a jaguar
lion or hyena hey what do you got to
fear
these tough relatives of the weasel
aren't just ferocious
they're super smart known to even use
tools to escape from enclosures
objects like rakes stones and mud just
become
things to climb for freedom aside from
their physical similarities to the skunk
the honey badger also boasts a dangerous
gland in its tail
containing a powerful steak machine
so they're tough stinky have extremely
stretchy and strong skin
and to top it all off they've got a
strong immunity to scorpions and snakes
the best thing to do if you walk into a
honey badger
is to leave it alone what chance do we
have
ever heard of the fungus strawberries
and cream
no what about its other name the
bleeding tooth fungus
this fungus isn't toxic but tastes so
bitter
that you might think twice about trying
some when young
and growing this white mushroom appears
to have red jelly coming out of its
pores
this sticky liquid is sap that's pushed
up from taking on too much water
the adult mushroom is just a boring
beige compared to this
underneath a mushroom cap where its
spores are produced
it has a tooth-like structure just to
make it even weirder
tasmanian devils have a reputation for
being bad
tempered when threatened by a predator
fighting other males
or getting a place at the table for
dinner
they're dubbed devils because of the
teeth bearing lunging
and one of the scariest shrieks you'll
ever hear in the middle of the night
they'll also eat pretty much anything
they can get a hold of too
they don't habitually go for people
although they will defend themselves if
they're cornered
with such a powerful bite you wouldn't
want to be on the receiving end
good thing the tassie devils would much
rather escape as well